---
layout: post
title: COMM 121 Intro to Finance --- Note 4
tags: fourth post
categories: demo
---


## How to understand the alternative definitions of Operating Cash Flow (OCF)?

In corporate finance, cash flow data is perhaps the most important piece of information contained in financial statements. OCF is the net cash inflow generated by the regualr 
operating activities of a company in a given time interval. 

Different definitions of OCF measure the same thing. 

- A. Top-Down Approach

OCF = Sales - Costs - Taxes

- B. Tax Shield Approach

OCF = (Sales - Costs) * (1- Tc) + Depreciation * Tc

where Tc is the corporate tax rate.

- C. Bottom-Up Approach

OCF = Net income + Depreciation 

Let us see how they are related. 

To see how A. and B. are related:

In order to calculate taxes, we need to get earnings before interests and taxes (EBIT) first. 

EBIT = Sales - Costs - Depreciation

Taxes =  EBIT * Tc

According to A., OCF = Sales - Costs - Taxes, plug in Taxes using EBIT * Tc, we get: 

Sales - Costs - EBIT * Tc =  
Sales - Costs - (Sales - Costs - Depreciation) * Tc = 
(Sales - Costs) * (1-Tc) + Depreciation * Tc

Therefore, starting from A., we get B..

To see how A. and C. are related:

Since Net income = EBIT - Taxes, and we know EBIT = Sales - Costs - Depreciation. 
Then, we get Net income = Sales - Costs - Depreciation - Taxes. 

According to C., OCF = Net income + Depreciation 
When we plug in Net income = Sales - Costs - Depreciation - Taxes, we get:

OCF = Net income + Depreciation = 
Sales - Costs - Depreciation - Taxes + Depreciation =
Sales - Costs - Taxes

Therefore, starting from C., we get A..

See page 221 on textbook for a numerical example. 









