---
layout: post
title: Apart from Work --- On the eve of World Cup Final 2022
tags: sixth post
categories: demo
---

## Will this match end the debate about who is the best player of this generation? and some thoughts about soccer

Well, I never thought I would follow the sport this far since I never played soccer on the pitch and I became a fan quite late in my life. It was in the summer of 2014, when I graduated from Shandong. I was confused about my life at that time because it seemed I did not head to where I want to be. I stayed at home, hanging out with families and friends, sleeping, and watching TV for the summer vacation before graduate school. Quite accidentally, I came across a highlight of a soccer match when I was boredly switching channels. It was Argentina vs. Iran, a world cup group stage match. It was a really competitive one even if you only saw the highlight. Iran had a few great chances to score, so did Argentina. Lionel Messi scored almost a last-minute goal during stoppage time at the second half. The way he scored that goal: outside the box, with his left foot, the neat execution, his celebration, fans' cheering, the atmosphere, and the passion, everything. That was exciting! I began to follow and watch soccer since then. Unfortunately, Argentina lost the final against Germany. I watched that game live at 3 AM in a shared space for students who were doing summer jobs. I still remembered how happy one of my friends was when Gotze scored that pivotal goal in extra time. I was sad for almost one week. They were so close to the cup but lost it, sort of echoing what I had missed in my life at that time. I did not realize that "win or lose, it's part of life". Nor did I enjoy that match because I focused too much on the result. I thought nobody would care about your effort if you lost in the end. Even if you lost as the second-best team, it was still a complete failure.  

More than eight years have gone by since 2014’s world cup final. Another final for Argentina tomorrow.  I feel that it is a perfect time for me to look back, reflecting on my experience as a soccer fan.  Damn, how should I begin? Too many moments come across my mind.  From La Liga to Premier League, from EI Clasico to Manchester Derby, to London Derby, from Champions League to Euro, to Copa America, from my first British supervisor, who is a Man U supporter to my primary school classmate, who is a die-hard fan for Real Madrid, to a professor in my department supporting Bayern Munich (We had some great banter in our group meeting.), and my numerous friends who are passionate about the sport. I have gradually come to appreciate the beauty of the match and the sports spirit inherent in it.  

In essence, soccer is about how players utilize the time, the space, and the ball most efficiently, and of course, to score goals. Since I do not actually play soccer, it took me a while to understand the laws of the game (see The FA Handbook for detail. I know it sounds nerdy, but this is what I did.), especially some tricky situations in which I thought the referee should not or should do this or that (We still have many complaints or arguments about the referees depending on different style of different referees after each match, and recently, complaints about the VAR…). I admit I could not fully understand the match, but it is not an obstacle for me, otherwise I would be a professional. I enjoy discussing, arguing, joking with my friends about the match, the players, the managers, and the crazy fans, etc.  At the beginning, I was quite feisty when encountered fans from rivalry teams. I would not speak to my classmates if they supported the rivalry teams at that time. We even gave each other bad nicknames such as XX team's dogs or pigs. It was funny and it is natural as many sports fans are aggressive, corky, and even ruthless. Not until I began to follow EPL did I understand that different teams have different styles, different players have different traits, and different managers have different philosophies. As long as you make full use of your advantage to win the game, no tactics are inferior to another (Personal preference also plays a large part in this.). A typical example is how Jose Mourinho became famous with his defensive “parking the bus” tactics and played counterattack with underdog teams.  Maybe I mellowed out as I become older. I even have some close friends supporting rivalry teams as I mentioned earlier.  I wish your team lose and my team win. At the end of the match, it is what it is, and we appreciate great performance from both sides. 

About the beauty of the match. In general, I think there are two completely different aesthetics. One focuses on physicality while the other emphasizes skills. Although one could argue both components are indispensable for a great team performance, certain teams do vary in terms of the level of physicality and skills. This leads to a long-standing debate about who is the best player of this era. CR7 or LM10?  Will this final crown LM10 over CR7 as the best player if the former wins the world cup? My answer is no. People appreciate skills more would still think Messi is the best, and vice versa. This is just a reflection of different preferences and tastes. I have my personal preference, but it will not restrict me from appreciating achieving the same goal through a different energy vibe. 

I benefit from following soccer mainly through what I learnt from the people involved in the match, especially from players and managers. How do they behave at the 12-yard spot? How do they become MOTM? How do they treat people and build a team? How do they hold on to their dreams under difficult situations? How do they respond to suspicion?  How do they deal with failure? How do they argue and fight back? And even how do they handle questions in press conference? How do they treasure teammates, families, friends, and fans? … They taught me “Nothing is impossible.” and “Never give up.”. It is fascinating to watch the lowest ranked team beat the top one team. Let alone the madness of a historical comeback or the bitterness of losing a match due to a small mistake or not dealing well with pressure. This is why we have dreams, why we work hard, and why we always want new challenges and try to break limits. Sometimes you could be terribly fouled, injured, and missed a few important matches. Then you learn how to play smart and protect yourself against opponents. Sometimes you win, and sometimes you lose. No team can win all the matches all the time. You must learn how to let go and try to improve whenever you can… Aside from the above, I also enjoy funny moments, healthy banters, hilarious memes alongside each match. 

Thanks soccer, I have enjoyed these eight years. I wonder if there really exists aliens in distant space, will they laugh at these 22 people fighting for a cup every four years? 

Good luck to both sides tomorrow :) To the sports spirit!



