---
layout: post
title: COMM 121 Intro to Finance --- Note 3
tags:  post 3
categories: demo
published: true
---


## About the present value of capital cost allowance(CCA) tax shield, or PV of CCATS

Preparation before discussion:

- Capital Cost Allowance(CCA): depreciation allowance, Canadian way of claiming depreciation expense to calculate taxable income for corporations. It separates assets into several classes, and different asset class has different CCA rate, which is a portion of the depreciable asset value that is allowed to claim as depreciation expense. That is why we call it capital cost `allowance`.

- Undepreciated Cost of Capital(UCC): the remaining depreciable asset value after accumulated CCA at the end of each period. The last period's UCC is the base to calculate the next period's CCA. 
 
- Tax Shield: Tax savings or reductions in taxes resulting from taking an allowable deduction from taxable income. The allowable deduction items could be depreciation, amortization, and interest expense, etc. X dollars deductions means XT dollars tax savings, where T is the corporate tax rate. In essence, tax shields are cash inflows to corporations. 

To simplify analysis, we assume the asset under discussion (e.g., equipment.) would last foever. Therefore, the tax shield we get from CCA is a stream of decreasing
cash inflows that last forever to the corporation. In other words, it is a special type of growing perpetuity. To see this, let us look at the following example:

Suppose the asset value is X, the corresponding CCA rate is d, and the corporate tax rate is T. Assume discount rate is k. Ignore the first year 50%(or 150%) rule for now. 

| Year | CCA | UCC | Tax Shield |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Xd | X-Xd | XdT |
| 2 | X(1-d)d | X(1-d)- X(1-d)d | X(1-d)dT |
| 3 | X(1-d)(1-d)d | X(1-d)(1-d)-X(1-d)(1-d)d | X(1-d)(1-d)dT |
| ... | ... | ... | ... | 

Clearly, we see the tax shield from CCA is indeed a stream of "growing" perpetuity and the growing rate is -d. Recall the formula for the present value of growing perpetuity, we get the PV of CCATS: XdT/(k-(-d)), which equals: XdT/(k+d)

Now, we add a layer of complexity. Let us stick to CRA's old 50 percent rule:

In the first year, you calculate depreciation based on only 50% of the value of the asset.
In the second year, you calculate depreciate against the full value of the asset (minus the amount you depreciate in the first year).

| Year | CCA | UCC | Tax Shield |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 0.5Xd | X-0.5Xd | 0.5XdT |
| 2 | X(1-0.5d)d | X(1-0.5d)- X(1-0.5d)d | X(1-0.5d)dT |
| 3 | X(1-0.5d)(1-d)d | X(1-0.5d)(1-d)-X(1-0.5d)(1-d)d | X(1-0.5d)(1-d)dT |
| 4 | X(1-0.5d)(1-d)(1-d)d  | X(1-0.5d)(1-d)(1-d)- X(1-0.5d)(1-d)(1-d)d | X(1-0.5d)(1-d)(1-d)dT | 
| ... | ... | ... | ... | 

Only after year 2, we observe a pattern of "growing" perpetuity. Therefore, we decompose the calculation of the PV of CCATS into two parts: 
- Part 1: year 1 CCATS discount back to time 0: 0.5XdT/(1+k)
- Part 2: from the second year forward, we apply PV of growing perpetuity formula: (1-0.5d)XdT/(k+d), note this is 
at the end of year 1 since the first cash flow occurs in year 2, we need to discount it back to time 0: (1-0.5d)XdT/(k+d)(1+k)
Finally, we add them up, rearrange, and we get the formula for PV of CCATS: XdT(0.5k+1)/(1+k)(k+d)

If the above math has made you frustrated(I wish you didn't), a more intuitive way to understand the formula is to follow the formulas on slide 19 lecture 6. As I discussed in my recording, treat the first part 0.5XdT/(k+d) as assuming from year 1 to infinity, we only allow half of the asset value as depreciable base. However, the 50 percentage rule only applies to the first year, therefore, we need to add back the other half from the second year onwards and discount it back to time 0: 0.5XdT/(k+d)(1+k). If you want to learn more about how to derive or understand the formula for PV of CCATS, see Appendix 8B on page 244(though 150% new rule for first year CCA). 





